# Vanderbilt Pickleball Web App

This project was developed by the Vanderbilt University Computer Science Department for the Vanderbilt Pickleball Club. The app is designed to assist with scorekeeping, player management, and game scheduling for the club. This source code is not intended to be used by anyone other than the Vanderbilt Pickleball Club.

## Testing/Running the App

In the order below, you can see how the app is intended to be installed, configured, and run. Please follow the steps in order.

### 1. `npm install`

This will install all of the dependencies for the app. This should be run in the root directory of the project.

### 2. `amplify configure`

This app is intended to be run on an AWS account via AWS Amplify. Amplify provides all the necessary hosting abilities in a managed format. However, the React app must be configured to use the Amplify CLI. This is done by running `amplify configure` in the root directory of the project. This will prompt you for your AWS credentials. You can find these credentials by logging into the AWS console and navigating to the IAM service. Once you have your credentials, run `amplify configure` and enter them when prompted.

### 3. `amplify codegen`

The schemas and queries for the DynamoDB tables are stored in the `amplify/backend/api/vupickleball/schema.graphql` file. These schemas are used to generate the necessary code for the React app to interact with the DynamoDB tables via GraphQL. This code is generated by running `amplify codegen` in the root directory of the project. This will generate the necessary code in the `src/graphql` directory. This should be done to ensure the React app is using the most up-to-date schemas.

### 4. `npm run start`

Runs the Pickleball web  app in  development mode.\
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in your browser.

The page will reload when you make changes.\
You may also see any lint errors in the console.

Please note that once the Amplify CLI is configured, starting the application (even in development mode) will attach the React app to the DynamoDB tables in the AWS account. This means that any changes made to the DynamoDB tables will be reflected in the production version of the app.

### 5. `npm run test` or `npm run test:coverage`

Launches the Jest test suite. This will run all of the tests in the `tst` directory. The tests are intended to test the functionality of the React components. The tests are not intended to test the functionality of the DynamoDB tables.

Appending `:coverage` to the end of the command will run the tests and generate a coverage report.

## Deployment and Next Steps

### Custom URL
At the time of writing, the Vanderbilt Pickleball Club did not want a custom domain name/URL. Therefore, the app is hosted on AWS Amplify's default URL. This URL is `main.db4jcttba1201.amplifyapp.com`. However, a custom URL can be purchased for relatively cheap and attached to the Amplify hosting setup by following the instructions [here](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/hosting/custom-domains).

### Hosting Costs
The hosting costs for the app are quite low. The DynamoDB tables are hosted on AWS and the React app is hosted on AWS Amplify. The DynamoDB tables are free for the first 25GB of data. The React app is free for the first 1 million requests per month. The hosting costs can be monitored by logging into the AWS console and navigating to the Cost Explorer service.
